The goal of this program is to use the Cultural Algorithm to find the best input value x for the xsin(10pix) + 2 function that minimizes the difference between the function value and a given belief system.

The f() function calculates the value of xsin(10pix) + 2 for a given value of x.

The fitness() function calculates the fitness of an individual with respect to the belief system. It takes in a value x and the belief system as inputs and returns the absolute difference between the value of xsin(10pix) + 2 for the given x and the belief system.

The cultural_algorithm() function implements the Cultural Algorithm with traits. It takes in the number of iterations, population size, number of cultures, maximum and minimum values of x, and the belief system as inputs.

The function starts by initializing the cultures with random individuals. For each culture, it generates pop_size random individuals by generating random values of x within the range of min_x and max_x, and calculates the fitness of each individual using the fitness() function. The individuals are sorted based on their fitness values, and the sorted list of individuals is added to the culture list.

The function also initializes the traits of the individuals in the population. The traits are represented as a list of random values between 0 and 1.

In each iteration of the algorithm, the function performs the following steps for each culture:

Tournament selection: Two parents are randomly selected from the top pop_size//2 individuals in the culture. These parents will be used to create a new child individual.

Crossover: The child individual is created by performing a weighted average of the two parent individuals. The weight is controlled by the parameter alpha, which is a random value between 0.1 and 0.9.

Mutation: The child individual may be mutated with a small probability (mutation_prob = 0.05 in this code). If it is mutated, the mutation size is controlled by the parameter mutation_size = 0.1, and the mutation direction is randomly chosen to be positive or negative.

Trait update: The trait of the child individual is calculated as a weighted average of the traits of the two parent individuals.

Replace worst individual: The child individual is added to the culture by replacing the worst individual in the sorted list. The trait of the child individual is also added to the traits list in the same position.

Sort culture based on fitness: The culture is sorted based on the fitness values of the individuals. The traits list is updated to maintain the same order as the sorted culture.

After all iterations are completed, the function returns the best individual across all cultures. The best individual is the individual with the lowest fitness value.

Finally, the program prints the best individual and the actual value of the xsin(10pix) + 2 function for a fixed value of x (0.2 in this code).



